so did you know you only use 10
of your brain well sorry that's not true
people use almost 100 of it almost all
the time
so what's holding you back why can't we
learn languages faster
multiply big numbers in our head or
understand quantum physics
maybe because of all of the limitations
we humans put on ourselves
have you ever said yourself i'm not
smart enough to solve that math problem
or i'm not good enough to get into that
college
as soon as you say those kinds of things
you're programming yourself to fail
every single one of us is capable of
doing anything
we set our mind to in 1954
roger bannister was the first person
ever to run a mile in less than four
minutes
for centuries before that everyone
thought it was impossible
people said your heart would explode if
you ran that fast
but banister did it barely in three
minutes and 59 seconds
just two months later another athlete
did it too
one and a half seconds faster the latest
record stands at three minutes 43
seconds
17 seconds faster than we ever imagined
was possible
a lot of your limitations are in your
head
you don't really know what you're
capable of your brain
is like a super computer it does what
you
tell it to do don't forget to give it
inspiring commands
that's what athletes ceos and brain
surgeons do
every day have you ever been so
interested in something
that you lost track of time didn't check
your cell didn't feel the need to eat
sleep breathe hours passed but you
didn't notice
you were just so into what you were
doing
it happens to me when i'm practicing
music it's not a very common state
but it probably happened to you at least
once in your life
let's get real it feels perfect
imagine if you could live in this state
most of the time
with breaks to eat and sleep of course
humans still need to meet their basic
survival needs
but imagine if you could be in this
state every time you study
work do your favorite hobby you'd be the
world's most productive person
you could probably graduate high school
at 14 and become a ceo before your 20th
birthday
you could have already written a handful
of novels by now
it's not science fiction your mind
really does have the power to be
extremely productive and
creative and it turns out you can
actually turn this skill on
in your brain all by yourself
the psychologist who discovered it was a
curious guy
why do some people like artists keep
creating masterpieces
even if it doesn't bring them money or
fame their art still makes them feel
happy
and they don't want to find another more
profitable profession
the psychologist wanted to interview
these people finally a composer told
them that when he writes music
he falls into a mental state where he
doesn't want anything
else in the world just doing his thing
gives him so much fulfillment
that he doesn't need any reward money
applause you name it
other people describe the same exact
phenomenon the psychologist called it
flow here's what it feels like
you're completely immersed in what
you're doing you're so
focused on it you don't get distracted
by anything
you're one hundred percent excited by
what you're doing
the reason behind it is actually pretty
simple the human brain can only perceive
110 bits of information per second for
example
listening to a person talking takes up
about 60 bits
that's why it's almost impossible to
listen to two people
talking about two totally different
things at the exact time
but what you can do is listen to someone
and do something easy like listen to
music
check your cell phone answer text play
with your hair
or even just think about the weather
when you reach flow
the activity you're doing takes up all
110 bits of attention
so you have nothing left over to spend
on any other activities
the world around you just seems to
disappear you don't even pay
attention to your basic needs like
eating or sleeping
above all you feel confident no doubts
at all
you can do it whatever it is you know
you can
plus the more you do it the more
inspiration you get
you lose track of time hours go by
but you don't even notice and you
definitely don't feel tired
when you're reading a book the words
come alive
when you're playing music it's like you
can hear your instrument
talking to you when you're running it's
as if the whole world around you
is in surround sound hd well that does
sound great
but how do you activate it it all
depends on two things
the first one is how much of a challenge
you feel
the other ones your skill set depending
on the level of each factor
you're going to exist in a different
state let's say
you're doing some second grade math
homework okay you're not einstein but
you have some math skills
the homework is too easy and isn't a
challenge at all
so you get bored now imagine you just
got a new job
you have some skills but your boss gives
you an impossible task on your first day
this time the challenge is too big so
you start to feel anxious
flow is somewhere in between it's a
world where you have a lot of skills
but also a lot of challenges the work's
hard
but you have confidence in your skills
here are the steps you should take to
get into your very own
flow state pick the right time think
about the time when you're usually most
productive
maybe early morning middle of the day
maybe
way past midnight it's different for
everyone
are you exhausted sad stressed angry or
hungry
if you are it's not going to work make
sure you're loaded with energy and
feeling good
if you're not you'll just keep getting
distracted
put your phone away turn off the tv and
close the door
if you can get distracted glancing at a
cute kitty pic your friend sent you
it can take you about 25 minutes to
completely forget about it
and concentrate back on your task mute
your phone and clean your desk
so you don't get the urge to do it later
grab all the stuff you're going to need
so you don't have to get up and disrupt
your flow
now pick out what you're actually gonna
do
remember to get into the flow you should
be doing something that you're very
skilled at
something that gives you a challenge but
sorry people
you can't achieve flow in every activity
it's got to be something you're already
really really good at scientists now
think we need ten thousand hours of
practice
to become truly amazing at something
that's three hours a day every day
for just over nine years pick something
challenging
something that gives you the chance to
grow if you pick something way too easy
you'll get bored right away but don't
overdo it
if the task is too hard for you you
won't reach
that sweet flow come up with a specific
task
this helps you focus your mind and stops
you from spacing out
it can be writing a story finishing a
painting coming up with a business plan
whatever
just make sure you know what the goal is
when you're ready you can start working
but it's not going to happen right away
it's like a sport you need to warm up a
bit first
it usually takes about 15 minutes of
solid focus
to get into a flow state and don't be
sad if it doesn't happen the first time
just keep trying it as often as possible
it's the most productive thing you'll
ever be and maybe even the most
happy it's very possible that we humans
came up with our best ideas
while being in full flow mode that's
when composers dreamt up their best
music
writers wrote their best novels and
sportswomen set world records